Release (Insomnia): Insomnia release 12.6 (#4905)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/insomnia/dynamic-mocking.md

    url: /insomnia/template-tags/     
---

> Dynamic mocking extends Insomnia’s existing local mock server feature. For each request, dynamic mocking renders Liquid templates so responses can include:

Reviewer: Dynamic mocking extends Insomnia’s existing mock server feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dynamic mocking extends Insomnia’s existing mock server feature. For each request, dynamic mocking renders Liquid templates so responses can include:
```

- Data from the request (headers, query parameters, path, or body).
- Randomly generated fake data.

## How to use the Liquid template

Use the Liquid template language in the Insomnia app:

1. Open or create a Mock server.
2. Create a new route.
3. Go to the **Mock Body** tab.
4. Define a dynamic response body.

Response headers and status codes remain configured per route, which ensures consistency while the response body updates dynamically.

### Differences from traditional mocks

Traditional mocks return static, predefined payloads, while dynamic mocks generate context-aware, variable outputs:

<!-- vale off -->

> {% table %}

Reviewer: The content of this table misunderstands how dynamic mocks work, likely due to the misleading UI in Insomnia. The 'Mock Body' tab on the left is actually for defining the response body template, not the request body sent by the client. When you click 'Test,' the 'Preview' tab on the right shows the response body returned by the mock server.

However, please note that this 'Test' feature doesn't allow you to specify query parameters, headers, or a request body. To properly test a dynamic mock, you should create a new Collection and add a request there. Use the URL copied from the mock route and customize your own query parameters, headers, and request body.

Reviewer 2: resolved in 14f0f70b9e219352ed6e42c97e759fc9bf20ecfb

> ### Differences from traditional mocks
> 
> Traditional mocks return static, predefined payloads, while dynamic mocks generate context-aware, variable outputs:
> 
> <!-- vale off -->
> {% table %}
> columns:
>   - title: Mock Body type
>     key: type
>   - title: Response
>     key: response
>   - title: Example
>     key: example
> rows:
>   - type: Static
>     response: Static, predefined payloads.
>     example: |
>       The client sends `"name": "George"`, and the mock returns `George`.
>   - type: Dynamic
>     response: Context-aware, variable outputs.
>     example: |
>       The client sends `faker.randomFullName`, and the mock returns a randomly generated name.
>   - type: Static and Dynamic combined
>     response: A mix of fixed fields and dynamic values.
>     example: |
>       The client sends `faker.randomFullName` together with a fixed `"role": "admin"` field. The mock returns a randomly generated name with the role set to `admin`.
> {% endtable %}
> <!-- vale on -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- vale off -->
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Mock server type
    key: type
  - title: Response behavior
    key: response
  - title: Example
    key: example
rows:
  - type: Static
    response: Returns the response body exactly as written.
    example: |
      The Mock Body is `"name": "George"`. Every request to the route returns `George`.
  - type: Dynamic (random)
    response: Each request evaluates faker expressions in the Mock Body.
    example: |
      The Mock Body contains `{"name": "{{faker.randomFullName}}"}`. Each request returns a different randomly generated name.
  - type: Dynamic (context-aware)
    response: Expressions in the Mock Body read data from the incoming Collection request.
    example: |
      The Mock Body contains `{"echoed_id": "{{ req.queryParams.id }}"}`. A request from a Collection to `<server-url/mock?id=42` returns `{"echoed_id": "42"}`. 
  - type: Mixed
    response: Combines fixed fields with evaluated expressions.
    example: |
      The Mock Body contains `faker.randomFullName` and a fixed `"role": "admin"` field. Each request returns a different name with the role set to `admin`.
{% endtable %}
<!-- vale on -->
```

For adding random values, Insomnia provides faker variables that you can insert anywhere in the response body.

Use dynamic mocking to:

> - **Serve request-aware responses**: When the mock reads the request and returns different content from it. For example, echoing identifiers or switching fields based on a query parameter or request body.

Reviewer: - **Serve request-aware responses**: Configure a mock route that shapes the response body based on the incoming request. For example, echoing identifiers or switching fields based on a query parameter or request body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Serve request-aware responses**: Create a mock route that shapes the response body based on the incoming request. For example, echoing identifiers or switching fields based on a query parameter or request body. Only available when running the request from a Collection, where you can copy the mock route URL and input **query parameters** to be echoed.
```

    url: /insomnia/template-tags/     
---

Dynamic mocking extends Insomnia’s existing mock server feature. For each request, dynamic mocking renders Liquid templates so responses can include:

- Data from the request (headers, query parameters, path, or body).
- Randomly generated fake data.

## How to use the Liquid template

Use the Liquid template language in the Insomnia app:

1. Open or create a Mock server.
2. Create a new route.
3. Go to the **Mock Body** tab.
4. Define a dynamic response body.

Response headers and status codes remain configured per route, which ensures consistency while the response body updates dynamically.

### Differences from traditional mocks

Traditional mocks return static, predefined payloads, while dynamic mocks generate context-aware, variable outputs:

<!-- vale off -->
{% table %}
columns:

>   - title: Mock server type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
